---
title: ICNP Oct 10
author:
institution: 
date: 2013-10-07
link: 
tags: ["ICNP"]
language: en
layout: review
mathjax: true
---

## A Uniﬁed Framework for Line-like Skeleton Extraction in 2D/3D Sensor Networks

Liu Fangming

## DOF: Duplicate Detectable Opportunistic Forwarding in Duty-Cycled Wireless Sensor Networks

CitySee, a real sensor network.

low duty-cycled sensor network.

X-MAC:

   * wake-up and see if there is anything
   * send until ACK is heard

Opportunistic forwarding

use time slot to distinguish ACK from different potential forwarders.

## Pathﬁnder: Robust Path Reconstruction in Large Scale Sensor Networks with Lossy Links

Yi Gao

many sensors and single sink.
reconstruct paths at sink.

PAD, PathZip, MNT

node-side recording

path bit vector, path container

X. Mao, X. Miao, Y. He, T. Zhu, J. Wang, W. Dong, X. Li, and Y. Liu,
“Citysee: Urban CO2 monitoring with sensors,” in Proceedings of INFOCOM, 2012.

MNT is a key competitor.

Use one reference packets instead of a set of helper packets.

## Joint Aggregation and MAC Design to Prolong Sensor Network Lifetime

ns-2, TinyOS

adjust the lifetime tradeoff between sender and receiver.
parameter receiver's Tr value: the duty-cycle.

aggregation: computation in networks and reduce transmission.
e.g. the highest temperature.
intermediate node: hold data for a while.

lifetime balance: hold data for longer time if battery is lower

most existing duty-cycling MAC protocols do not bound end-to-end delay

split delay budget into: Forwarding Aggregation Delay (FAD) and Tr

children and parent (next-hop on the forwarding tree) nodes

## Power-Aware Design of IP Core Networks under General Trafﬁc Demands

Zhi Zhang

PoP.

green net. : dynamic power scaling and smart stand-by.

correlated traffic and uncorrelated traffic.

reduce power consumption by change topology.

chassis, can be active or inactive, whether having traffic or not

P=2, perfect weighted matching.
iterative matching.
P/2 approximation.

disjoint set cover.

simulation.

## Real-Time Power Control for Dynamic Optical Networks – Algorithms and Experimentation

optical net.
device dynamic.
network static.

BER is a convex func. with power.
shape unknown, depends on multiple factors.

SLA requirements more important than optimality

## Energy Efﬁcient Carrier Aggregation Algorithms for Next Generation Cellular Networks

Amir

## CMES: Collaborative Energy Save for MIMO 802.11 Wireless Networks

MIMO 802.11

59% less battery lifetime than legacy wifi

MIMO idle power GT SISO active power.

metric: power/ goodput (joule/ bit)

one-sided energy management: receiver optimal.

informed walk over MIMO modes.

## Hop-by-hop Computing for Green Internet Routing

Dan Wang

Cisco CRS-1, 1MW, 10K times of a PC

TCAM: key energy consumption of a router

past approaches: turn routers/ net. devices into sleep mode.
topology is pruned.

observation: different traffic volumes influence energy.

trunking, 802.1AX

power model.
similar to a step function.
BitEngine 12000 to validate.

Routing Algebra, Infocomm'01, Sobrinho,
some properties for loop avoidance.
left-isotonic

Not all ISP like MPLS, e.g. China Research Net.

future: centralized optimization and use MPLS to implement.

## Guided Multiple Hashing: Achieving Near Perfect Balance for Fast Routing Lookup

multiple hashing: reduce collision but needs multiple lookups.

Extended Bloom Filter

Deterministic hashing

Intermediate table

companion-empty.
target array: which hash function is used.

Cuckoo Hashing. Rasmus Pah.

real trace.

## On the Forwarding Paths Produced by Internet Routing Algorithms

widest-shortest ECMP

algorithm to algebra (A2A).
shift from complex algorithm to a new metric.

semiring

commutivity, distributivity

distributivity between "min" and "plus"

abstract representation of LS and DV.

left distributivity

cancelitive

further:

   * k-best paths
   * longest-match prefix, cold-potato
   * route aggregation
   * fast reroute
   * tunneling
   * IPX
   * remote peering

## Taming TCP Incast Throughput Collapse in Data Center Networks

Jiao Zhang

Incast, many-to-one pattern.
distributed FS, distributed computing frameworks.

switch-based mechanisms: hard to deploy.
end-host.

FB, NSDI'13, replace TCP with UDP, limit number of concurrent senders.

two types of timeouts:

   * tail of blocks: LAck.
   lack of ACK to trigger fast retransmission.
   * head of block: FLoss

Trigger more ACK and trigger fast retransmission:
Retransmit the last three packets;
Retransmit last packet for three times.

modify the SOCKET interface, 
App use a flag to signal the boundary of data block.

reduce congestion window at the start of each stripe.

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_retransmit>

> The fast retransmit enhancement works as follows: if a TCP sender receives a specified number of acknowledgements which is usually set to three duplicate acknowledgements with the same acknowledge number (that is, a total of four acknowledgements with the same acknowledgement number), the sender can be reasonably confident that the segment with the next higher sequence number was dropped, and will not arrive out of order. The sender will then retransmit the packet that was presumed dropped before waiting for its timeout.

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TCP_pacing>

## Multi-Resource Round Robin: A Low Complexity Packet Scheduler with Dominant Resource Fairness

Wang Wei

middleboxes, deep processing.

fairness

state-of-the-art: single resource

dominant resource fairness.

round-robin, ideal for single resource.

intuition: apply RR to flow's dominant resource.
but leads to arbitrary unfairness.

no prior knowledge of packet processing time is required.

## LOOP: Layer-based Overlay and Optimized Polymerization for Multiple Virtual Tables

physical link

TRIE

multiple FIB.

one's counting.

TRIE to layered chunks

## OpenSession: SDN-based Cross-layer Multi-stream Management Protocol for 3D Teleimmersion

3D Tele-Immersion.
80ms E2E delay.

map App topology to network layer

## Skewless Network Clock Synchronization

Enrique Mallada

Google Spanner

NTP: precision, 100us to few ms.
stratums

IEEE 1588(PTP) and IBM CCT:
extra HW; 1us

us level acc. without extra HW

exponential average of offsets

Laplacian. spectral analysis. 

## Kistree: A Reliable Constant Degree DHT

Irfan

log degree DHT: Chord, Kademlia, Pastry

constant degree DHT: avg. Viceroy;
probabilistic, D2B, Koorde.

this: deterministic constant degree DHT.

segmentation: log number of layers.

routing table: parent and lower layers.

 de Bruijn graph

## Real-time Veriﬁcation of Network Properties using Atomic Predicates

Hongkun Yang

forward, ACL

Xie, 2005, Infocomm. reachability check model.

Binary Decision Diagram

mapping to atomic predicate?

## StEERING: A Software-Defined Networking for Inline Service Chaining

service chaining

policy based router


