---
title: Sigcomm2013 Notes (Aug 13)
author:
institution:
date: 2013-08-13
link: http://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2013/
tags: []
language: en
layout: review
mathjax: true
---

38 papers accepted.
Highest acceptance count since 1987.

Standout keywords:
SDN, Cloud, ...

signup@layer9.org

20 min per talk + 5 min Q/A.

Best paper:

   * Ambient Backscatter: Wireless Communication Out of Thin Air
   * Vincent Liu, Aaron Parks, Vamsi Talla, Shyamnath Gollakota, David Wetherall, Joshua R. Smith
   * University of Washington
   * <http://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2013/papers/sigcomm/p39.pdf>

## Test of time award

1.

   * Planetlab: an overlay testbed for broad-coverage services
   * Chun, Brent and Culler, David and Roscoe, Timothy and Bavier, Andy and Peterson, Larry and Wawrzoniak, Mike and Bowman, Mic

2.

   * Kevin Fall, 2003.
   * A delay-tolerant network architecture for challenged internets.

## Keynote

Larry Peterson

Princeton

http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~llp/

   * GENI Design Principles
   * PlanetLab Policy Considerations
   * PlanetLab Design Principles

"Zen and Art of the network architecture"

"Zen and Art of Motorcycle Maintenance"
-- Robert Pirsig

Classic view.

Romantic view.

Those who want to fix the Motorcycle
v.s.
Those who want to ride it.

### GENI.

Duality. Networking v.s. distributed systems.

### PlanetLab & CoBlitz

   * Anlyais.
   * Controlled lab: Implemetation Reality
   * Deployment: Traffic & user Reality
   * Pilot demo: Customer Reality
   * Commercial adoption: Market Reality. sold to Telcos
   * Change the market.

Network Function Virtualization (NFV).

### Path to Enlightenment

Assumptions hide the truth.

Users reveal hidden assumptions.

Operationalize -- New Bar.

represents the fixed-point of an architecture.
[Perterson, 2006], 13 design invariants to guide evolution.

Circa 2013. (Django Object Class Definition)

### Lessons

   * Whole is greater than the sum of its parts.
   * Unifying abstractions.
   * Balance requirements.
   * Experience (reality) driven.
   Deploy it, operationalize it, use it.
   * Dynamicity is the reality.

SDN: separate control and data plane.

Network Function Virtualization:
data plane functions running in VMs on commodity machine.

Internet -- Big switch.

Everything as a service. XaaS.

XaaS Operating System (XOS)

### Example

CoBlitz, operator CDN, now Akamai

Syndicate.


--------


## B4: Experience with a Globally-Deployed Software Deﬁned WAN

SD WAN.

2010 traffic, the 2nd largest ISP if it were.

### Principles

   * separate forwarding from control
   * whole network as a single fabric
   * logically centrlaized
   * deterministic

### Implementation

Site -- site, iBGP.
site -- cluster, eBGP.

Guagga: ISIS, BGP

Paxos

OFC, OFA

### Traffic Engineering

Max-min fair bandwidth allocation to FlowGroup.

Throughput increase compared with shortest path routing.

main benefits come from reduced provisioning for fault tolerance

### B4 WAN

### SDN Benefits

   * commodity forwarding hardware
   * global optimization
   * network as a fabric rather than a collection of individual boxes
   * TE and edge rate limiting

## Achieving High Utilization with Software-Driven WAN

Chi-Yao Hong (UIUC)

Inter-DC WAN

Inefficiency:

   * Lack of coordination.
   background.
   can shape the traffic.
   * MPLS-TE chooses shortest path.
   (can do non-SP routing?)

SWAN (Software-Driven WAN)

Theoretical bounds compared with MaxMinFairShare

Congestion-free update is hard.
Sometimes no feasible solution.

   * With slack, can guarantee to find the solution.
   * an optimization formulation.
   Determine demand-path-step variables.

OF OpenFlow.

20K rules. with OF, 1-2K rules.


------



## Ambient Backscatter: Wireless Communication Out of Thin Air

Vincent Liu

noise:

   * Analog low-pass filter

distributed MAC:

   * Backscatter device do not have energy levels.
   * no Backscatter, see all 0s or 1s.
   * with Backscatter, transitions.
   * Use bit-transitions as proxy for energy levels

Applications:

   * Grocery, warehouse.
   Items can figure out whether they are misplaced on their own.

Battery-free hardware prototype.
Transform existing signals to both power source and communication medium.

Site: <http://abc.cs.washington.edu>

## Dude, Where’s My Card? RFID Positioning That Works with Multipath and Non-Line of Sight

Jue Wang and Dina Katabi

Dina MIT,

http://people.csail.mit.edu/dina/

Battery-free tags, 5-cent

Locate tags. 10 to 15 cm accuracy.

   * Previous models require Line-Of-Sight (LOS).
   * accuracy is about half a meter.

Challenge:

   * Multipath effects.
   * RSSI, Angle-of-Arrival (AoA).
   * Angle does not reflect the direction of the object.
   * RSSI does not reflect distance well.

Key ideas:

   * **Focus on proximity to reference RFIDs**
   * Exploit multipath
   * Nearby RFIDs propagate along closer paths.

Power of reflection.
Multipath profiles.

An antenna array to capture multiple profiles.
However, it's expensive.

**Use single sliding antenna to mimic an array.**

Detect proximity from multipath profiles.

   * Naive, correlation, not working well.

Borrow from speech recognition:

   * Dynamic Time Warping (DTW)
   * Computes the total Warp to change from signal 1 to signal 2.

Implement Pinlt Reader on USRP.

PINIT

   * 10x improve to RSSI
   * 6x improve to AoA.

## Dhwani: Secure Peer-to-Peer Acoustic NFC

NFC standards does not define security the physical layer.

Acoustic Communications.

Use speaker and microphone

3 Challenges correspond to the RF counterparts.

Software defined acoustic OFDM

Dhwani

JamSecure

self interference cancellation.

Conclusions:

   * Enable NFC in today's device.
   * Software-only solution.

## See Through Walls with Wi-Fi!

Fadel Adib and Dina Katabi

Challenges: Wall reflection is 10K stronger than reflections coming from behind the wall.

Wi-Vi.
http://people.csail.mit.edu/fadel/wivi/

Poster: http://people.csail.mit.edu/fadel/papers/wivi-poster.pdf

Idea: transmit two waves and cancel each other for static objects.

   * Three antennas
   * Two transmit
   * One receive

Motion:

   * tracking motion: antenna array.
   * Human motion emulates antenna array.

Gesture encoding: a transition codec.

One person per curvy line.
Automatic estimation of number of people.
Classification.

Related work:

   * RCP10, for millitary.
   * CSW12
   * Mobicom'13, PGGP13

-----

## Demo

### Locating using Prior Information: Wireless Indoor Localization Algorithm

Prior information

Generate a mapping from location to signal.
Needs special manual measurement before use
(prior information).

### Qphone: A Quantum Security VoIP Phone

Quantum communication.

best demo award.

my long question not addressed: why not use quantum channel to transfer data directly?
For OTP the length of password and data are the same. (?)

### Application-Awareness in SDN

Classification algorithm on SDN.

   * Switch feed back measurements to controller.
   * Controller run machine learning and learn classifiers.
   * Install classifiers into switch.

Amazing part: only packet size is used as the feature for classification;
can classify applications. (?)

### Cloud3DView: An Interactive Tool for Cloud Data Center Operations

like developing a 3D game using data center as the environment.
Navigate around and check the statuses.

Other info.:

   * http://www.ntu.edu.sg/home/ygwen/
   * Ths group has a cluster.
   Have unused capacity.
   Can contact for research experiment.

### Supporting Application-specific In-network Processing in Data Centres

In-network computation to save communication resources.
Address problems in e.g. shuffle stage of MapReduce.

Key: many query can be merged in intermediate stages.

Needs hardware upgrade of network device.

Why not just dremel?

Related: mergeable summary.

### Replication Free Rule Grouping for Packet Classification

Interesting work. Not only packet classification.
Can do general decision tree rule grouping.

Tradeoff between memory and execution time.

Decompose one tree to multiple tree so that the overlapping of leaf nodes is small -- save space.
One multi-processor devices, multiple tree does not incur additional delay.

Non-overlapping, so already optimal for current objective.
Previous EffiCuts and ParaSplit not guarantee non-overlapping.
One rule one tree, a trivial solution, can also achieve current objective -- non-overlapping.

Further:

   * constraint: non-overlapping.
   * objective: **minimize** the number of trees used.

Can be an interesting problem to study.

### The Contagion of Malicious Behaviors in Online Games

Study of diffusion in social networks.

Nodes influenced by number of exposures.

### Greedy Forwarding for Mobile Social Networks Embedded in Hyperbolic Spaces

Looks relevant to me but mathematically involved.

Missed the presenter. Checkout the details later.

### Towards Fast Regular Expression Matching in Practice

(20130814, 2nd session)

Two implementations of RE engine (for multiple patterns):

   * nondeterministic ﬁnite automata (NFA).
   Needs multiple processors.
   * deterministic ﬁnite automata (DFA)

It's said that the wildcard is the most challenging part.

**look-around** is not fully implemented in production RE engines.
What's the hardness there?
Not addressed in this work.

Based on DFA.
Decompose original pattern into multiple segments, one wildcard one segment.
A jumping rule table between segments.
