---
title: ICNP Oct 9
author:
institution:
date: 2013-10-09
link:
tags: ["ICNP"]
language: en
layout: review
mathjax: true
---

## Using Routers to Build Logic Circuits: How Powerful is BGP?

NOT gadget

infinite BGP network, turing complete

Gao-Rexford condition

relation between BGP dynamics and logic circuts

PSPACE-hardness

start from constructing logic gates.

## Optimal Link-state Hop-by-hop Routing

shortest path routing now, problem to balance load.

   * link-state: every router views the whole network status.
   * hop-by-hop
   * adaptive: do not rely on traffic matrix to adjust the weights.
   * optimal w.r.t. some objective.

prior: MPLS, Penalizing Exponential Flow Splitting, distance-vector (not link-state), source-routing,

multi-commodity flow.

HALO

compatible with current routers and SDN.

[1] M/M/1 delay formula for cost

## STRIP: Privacy-Preserving Vector-Based Routing

Wilko Henecka

PRISM

BGP: information hiding protocol. not enough.
can infer properties, e.g. cut-prov relation.

homomorphic encryption.

secure sum

distance-vector. distributed Bellman-Ford.

idea: encrypt at one node,
ask the potential next-hops to compute whether it lies on the SP or not;
hop by hop until reaching destination;
destination finally computes the distance and send back to source.

future: our CD work can also use homomorphic encryption;
though, DH is still a good starting point;
the SP calculation can be used as a kind of graph distance.

https://github.com/wilko77/STRIP

some pointers to useful libs in Python for number manipulation.

## Graceful Router Updates in Link-State Protocols

current: OSPF/ IS-IS + MPLS + LDP.

transient loops: do not know the order of updates.

idea: split updates to a sequence of loop-free updates.
i.e. gradually increase link weights.

node shutdown.
simple solution: shutdown link one by one, not effective.
better: OSPF/ IS-IS existing feature, simultaneous weights update.

multi-dimensional updates

[7] ToN, the single link updates.

minimal sequence of updates; polytime algo;


